High in this video we're going to continue talking about impuls and then we'll also look at the import
live.
Now we saw how we could write our own function in the last video to do a basic impuls.
We were able to write a module out in a file and then we were able to read that file in just using open.
Then we were able to compile it and execute it.
And then we stored the object with a key inside the six modules dictionary.
So let me go ahead and impulses because we'll need that but of course it's bare bones right.
That importer that we wrote doesn't do a lot of stuff it does.
It did the basics.
It actually did the import correctly and found the file because we told it exactly where to look for
the file.
You'll remember that we had those four pounds that we had coded essentially to tell us where to go look
for it and then we were able to load the code up you know compile and execute.
So that's what the impled does.
The impled does that those basic steps but it does a whole lot more.
When I say import says Where did I get this from.
You know if I look at the representation of CIS it's a builtin.
If I was to do something like import for example collection's let's look at the representation for collections.
What you see it came from somewhere it came from the lib collections Knot's a collection directory as
opposed to a file.
And that's because collections is a package.
We'll get to that later.
But it loaded it from disk.
So I didn't have to tell it the path.
Right.
Where did it find the path.
How did it get.
Well there's a whole lot more going onto the import than just compiling and executing the module code
and putting it into the CIS modules cache.
And actually that's where a lot of the complexity comes in to the impled.
It's basically finding Where's the stuff when I say import fractions.
Where is it going to go find it.
If I've installed a third party package let's say I've installed flask and I import flask where is it
going to find it.
Right.
That piece is complicated and that's what we didn't do at all.
So we just rely on the import method and we rely on Python being able to funneling stuff.
And we'll get back to that in a second.
But sometimes we do want to use code to import a package and not that this isn't code.
What I mean by this is let's say that we have something called mob name and my name let's say is math
and I want to import this module but I don't have the name.
I can't say import my name because Python is going to look for a module called MMOG name for this.
You'll notice it says well I couldn't find a module called maade under school name so that's not going
to work.
We can't do that.
Instead you know if we had our own function that we wrote earlier we could say well import you know
math and it would go and find it.
But we didn't implement a find method.
So we can't use Import not when we have the name of the module sitting that a variable but instead we
can use the import lib.
So let's go ahead and import import lib and import lib has all that functionality for us.
In fact import lib if we look at the representation is a package.
If we see that done during a Doppie Why then resides at this location on my system your system obviously
will be different.
You can actually go to that location and open up the code files and take a look at how it does it.
Now warn you it's not for the faint of heart.
It is quite complex and will understand why in a few minutes.
But import lib has an import module function so we can say import lib doc import
module and now we can give it the module name because it expects a variable.
So we could hardcoded in here we could say import math.
We could do it this way.
Or if that string is in some variable just pass of the variable.
And now it's important.
So what does that mean.
Well remember what the import does.
It basically brings the code in.
Compiles executes it and puts it in the cist modules.
So for look at sist modules and I'm just going to check with a math.
Is in six modules and you'll see that it is.
It was imported to.
If I look at let's say fractions in syste of modules we haven't imported that yet.
It's not in there.
OK so math is in six modules so good I can say math talks square root of 2 and I get an error.
What happened that says math is not defined.
Well.
This is just like the function that we wrote this thing imported the module and put it in the stop module
dictionary.
Ed didn't do anything with it other than that.
So basically it's created that object exists.
It's no reference in the source modules but we don't have a handle to it in all namespace because if
we look at math is it in our namespace now namespace remember is our Global's dictionary.
It's not in our Goebels dictionary now and all in our namespace.
We need to put it in there so this at this point there's two ways we could do this.
We could say Maff So we're going to create the symbol called math.
And math is equal to.
While it's equal to 6 start module's math right.
We could do it this way and I'm going to call it math.
True I'm going to mimic basically this simple math as math to write.
This is exactly what I'm doing here.
I'm taking math too from the top modules because I know it exists already.
If I didn't know it existed then what I would do is I would basically take my import and rewrite it
this way.
So instead of doing this I would say math equals import lib.
Import module.
Right now what is this importer going to do.
It is going to check to see if math is in the CIS modules for us and if it is just returns it.
So it's not going to re-import.
Just like our regular Python import.
This works the same way.
This is a python equivalent right.
That's just written in pure Python but it's an equivalent to the importer that we have in C..
That's in the C Python so now I'm going to have a local symbol called Math too that is going to be pointing
to the math module.
Right.
So in fact I can take a look now and say is math true.
In Global's.
And the answer is yes.
Now what's the idea of math too.
It's this idea here.
What's the ID of thought modules and the math module that's referenced in the magos dictionary.
It's exactly the same.
You can see that the same idea it's just the same object.
OK so now I have that so I can say math to x square root of 2.
And that was just fine.
So let's take a look at the representation of math while math is not defined.
Math is not defined math 2 is OK.
So the Maggio.
It's a module.
It's math but it's built in.
And depending on whether you're on Windows on Linux you'll get slightly different information here but
at the end of the day it's a built in.
It's part of the built in Python it's it's written in C..
We'll see Python in the right and it's built in.
Now if I do something like arm import live we look at the representation for full import live.
You'll notice I don't get quite the same thing.
It's still a module.
Its name is import lib but it came from somewhere and the from is a file.
And if I look for example at import fractional slips out impled fractions and again I could do it this
way or I could say fractions equals import lib.
Import module.
Fractions can.
I could go and do it this way.
And now I can look at the representation of the fractions module.
Again I get it from some location.
This is in the package the Fraction's is in a single module and there's other things that you might
see depending on what you import.
You'll see different kinds of files.
P Why.
Well we know those are standard python files.
Sometimes you'll see why c files.
C files are compiled python files and in fact when you run a program it actually compiles the python
you know you might also run across a lot of other types of files you might run across as old files or
PVD files which I'll think DL else they basically like DL else.
But for in the Linux world as I saw in the Windows world the IDs and many other types.
The other thing too is that you can actually have your modules or your code sitting inside a zip file
or an exe file or a wheel.
So let's just talk about the zip.
You can put a module inside a zip file and Python can still reach in to that zip file to that zip archive
and find the module in there and get it from there and then import.
So how does it do all this.
Well that's why I'm saying that the importer is actually quite complex but it works on a basic principle
where you have finders and you have loaders.
And then if you have a finder Plus a Lowder's That's also called an import.
So what is the finding.
Well the finder is something that's responsible for finding the module that you want to improve.
So if I say import math and if I do import fractions so that the location where it came from wasn't
the same math came from the built ins fractions came from this.
If I had my own module that I'd written like you know module one it would look and find it in a different
place and potentially that module could be in a zip file that's in our directory or that's inside the
base Python installation.
So that's what the finder is the finder is basically you think of it as a function that goes and soldiers
and is you know looks for a module.
So the first thing when we do an import that Python does it looks and asks basically at each finder
saying hey do you know anything about this module.
And if that find says I don't know anything about this then Python goes to the next finder and says
Do you know anything about math or fractions or module one.
And if that one comes back and says Yup I know what it is.
I know what this module is.
And by the way I also know what loader you should be using and then Python tells the loader OK here's
the module here's where I found it.
Go ahead and load it.
And that then does finishes the whole thing of compiling it executing it while loading the code first
from the resource and then it goes onto the final step once it's loaded that thing of compiling executing
and putting into the cache and potentially putting the arm symbol in our namespace then we do import
math it actually puts a math symbol in our global namespace that points to the compiled object in memory.
So that's what finders and Lowder's are.
And that's how the kind of basic system works.
So this means that you can actually write your own finders and Lowder's.
So what does the finder return.
While the finder returns a module spec essentially.
So if we look at fractions we have the special property on its dhanda spec and this is called a module
spec module specification the module specification says here's the name of the module.
Here's the loader that you should run you should run this sowles file loaders.
And here's the you know where that module is sitting.
It's at this you know this location here.
So this module spec came back from a finder the finder so yeah I know what Fraction's is and here's
what I know about it.
This is the name of the module.
This is the loader that should be used to load it.
And this is the location of the module so Python comes with a variety of finders and loaders and remember
that finders and loaders that are kind of combined objects are called importer's or they can do both.
Then they're called importers.
So we can look at the CIS dark matter path and sister Metapad contains basically the finder objects.
So these are the finders that Python has right now and depending on what packages you install it might
be different.
But I have this built in importer frozen importer Pathfinder so built and imported is both a finder
and a loader and it's for the built ins frozen Emporium not going to discuss that Pathfinder.
That's the one that will actually find your modules in your path.
We'll come back to paths in a bit.
So for example I can look at math Web site import map and get the module here.
And we can look at the spec and the spec of math while the name is math and the loader as you can see
it's this built in importer's right in the origin was built in so every module basically goes through
this.
When you drill simple it has to find a force.
So Python goes through these importer's one by one and it asks the most important Hey do you know what
math is.
And in this case the built in importer's says Sure I do.
Here's what it is and it returns the module spec and now in turn the loader can go and load up this
module.
It knows how to load you know built ins and then it you know then the regular step that we've seen before
of the can you know compile execute and put into the SAS modules happens.
So let's say for example that we did an import you know let's say we had a module in our project called
module 1 and we say impled module one python is going to go through these finders basically and say
hey built an imported You know with module one is no I don't.
Frozen in.
You know what module one is.
No I don't.
OK Pathfinder's do you know anything about module 1 and Pathfinder's going to look through the path
and your project and in any other location it needs to look at.
And it's going to say yeah I know what module one is here.
You know here's information about what information just a module spec but maybe you can define module
one right.
Because if I run this model one no module No module one.
Then what happens is that Python went through all these importer's one by one and each one of them came
back and said No I don't know.
Basically there were are none.
So I got I don't know anything about this.
Then at that point Python comes back and raises an exception and says hey I can't find the module anywhere.
Now what's interesting about finders and Lowder's is that you can make your own and you just need to
add them.
Right you can add your findings to this Metapad.
There's other things that you need to do.
I'm not going to get into those details but you could technically right find as an Lowder's that could
go ahead and find and load your modules from a database or from maybe a rest API call maybe you build
an API.
Its job is to basically solve up you know Amadeo and you know that gets requested of your code and you
know things like that.
So you can you can certainly do that.
You don't have to write your modules in files and that's what I was saying earlier when you say import
module is not necessarily a file.
You can write your own fine doesn't load to basically extend that functionality so the module spec arm.
So far what I've been doing is I've been importing the module in order to then look at the representation
to see the modules spec or at least look at the Dondre spec to see the module spec.
You can actually use also the import lib if you want to know that have time you could say you build
docs find spec so this doesn't load the module right.
So I could for example look at a module that we haven't loaded yet let's say decimal and I could ask
it.
Give me your on the arm.
The module information for decimal is not a module.
Right.
Decimal is a class that's in the decimal module so the decimal module is fun.
So basically the find is one of the find has found it and it came back and said Yeah it's called decimal.
This is the loader that you have to use you're going to use the source file loader and this is the location.
So what I want to do is I want to Century create a small module in the same directory as my Jupiter
notebook and instead of you are swapping on and you can certainly do this by going to your a notebook
directory and just creating a new file.
Just use any standard text.
And we just want to put a module that's going to contain two lines of code.
Print running module one copy white and then equals 100.
That's all I'm going to do.
So here what I'm going to do so I don't have to come out of Jupiter.
So it's just self-contained.
I'm going to do this again to write it out directly from here.
So I'm going to say code filed out right.
And whether we want to write well I want to write print running module wonder why.
And then I put a new line and then I'm going to write out another line that the right arm equals 100
K and put a new line on it.
So that created a file module wonder why in my current directory where I'm running this notebook you
can certainly just go and write it yourself and let me show you what it looks like.
So that's that's module one over here.
Let me just show you that I could remove module one Darcie y and it will no longer be there.
OK it's gone.
And I can now go ahead and rerun this.
And if we go back and take a look you'll see that module one is back and we can look at it.
So the
camp there we go.
It just had two lines of code print running module wonder why equals 100.
So you can just create that directly if you want.
I'm just showing you this in more detail because I'm going to use that trick.
A few other times as well.
So I don't have to go because I'm in Jupiter right.
It's not a project like in PI charm or if you're just dealing with you know the the file system directly
and doing command line stuff.
So just to keep it self-contained.
So now I just have to distribute the notebook.
I don't have to distribute the module wonder why file as well since I'm dynamically creating.
So now we have this module one that's been written out to disk so we can import it.
But before we import it let's go ahead and say fine spec Let's see if
it finds it and it does so that's great right.
So the find is which one the source file loader is right is the one that's going to load it.
And this is where it's going to load from.
That's exactly where we're looking.
We're looking in my you know Dropbox Python deep dive folder and this is where the model is model one
of the why.
OK.
So let's import So now remember.
What does it do.
It prints.
Running module 1 and it sets up a variable equal to 100.
So there we got it printed running model 1.
As you saw it executed the module so module 1 is in our namespace right.
We have a key basically in our namespace code module 1.
Right.
So now we can call module 1.
It would give that a regular import weekenders code module 1. 8.
And we see it's got a value of 100.
OK so now what I want to do though is I want to go ahead and create this module one but somewhere else.
Because as you saw fine spec right Python was able to locate our module because it's inside the same
directory where our main program is running.
And so it knows about that directory and it's going to find it in there.
So instead what I want to do is I want to do the same thing but I'm going to go put it in some other
directory.
And so you should do the same thing as well.
You didn't just copy that file and put it in some other directory that's not related to your Python
not with your Python installation and not related to your environment not related to a project just
put it somewhere else.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to use it because I'm I'm sitting in windows right now so I'm going
to use from Pos.
I'm going to use the environment variable are called Home path.
This is for Windows.
Right.
If you are running in Linux you'd probably look at your environment for example home.
I'm just going to take my home directory basically.
OK.
Or you can hardcoded to whatever you want.
You know you could you could make it you know.
You'll see our backs last backlashed time.
For example if you're on Windows or whatever you want.
I just need to find a particular path that's outside.
So I'm going to use this one.
And if we take a look at what it is can't that's just my root directory.
OK.
As a user.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to do the same thing that I did before.
Right.
The only difference is I'm going to write it to that path.
So let me go ahead and do this.
So absolute Our paths equals or a stop path dark join external module paths and we're going to join
it with that code module to the IPY.
OK.
So here I'm just building up a path from taking my that whatever that path was which I just happened
to grab from my environment.
You can hand-coded if you want.
So I've got that and now I'm just going to repeat what I did before.
So file absolute path and we want to make it right a ball and it will override it if it exists already.
So pass code file and code file.
Actually you know what I'm going to copy and paste this over here and we'll just go and paste it down
here.
I'll just change this to running module to and then maybe Pinson sort of thing equals a hundred changes
to double quotes so I can say X equals Python.
Right.
So that's why change the string to double quotes so I could use single quotes and psych's Ramban writing
the side on creating a code file.
Ok so now we have module to written out to a file in that extern module path directory.
So let's go ahead and let's see if import live can find the spec for module 2 and it returns nothing
in return None saying not.
I couldn't find it.
But if you think about it that's hardly surprising.
How would Python know look for module to in this directory here.
It doesn't.
Hello.
No way to look.
Well this is the sist path.
Look at this path it's a sense just a list that contains various paths that it knows about and it's
going to look in there.
Very often when you install packages they'll add things to this.
And Python has its own as well.
So by default we get our current path which is where we're sitting right now the notebook so that's
why I found module one because module one was in this path.
Right.
It wasn't and the other ones on the other hand module 2 is in none of those paths so it can't find it.
But that's very simple to fix.
We're just going to say system of path got a append external module path.
OK.
Type it right.
So there we go.
Now if I look at this path again you'll notice that now that path is here.
So now that I have that done can I go ahead and find the spec for module 2.
And the answer is yes.
OK.
Now it knows about that path it knows where to look and it's a.
I found it it's at this location and this is the loader that you should use.
It's a source file loader instance and that's what you should use to load.
OK.
So now basically it means that we can import module to that was just fine.
And as you saw it printed running module 2 and then module 2 that X is python.
OK.
So that's how the importer works.
Right.
And that's how it kind of mixes in with the finders.
The Lowder's we saw the module spec we saw what the cist path is.
So whenever you do an import and it fails it tells you I can't find it.
OK maybe you have your file that you wrote somewhere or maybe you installed the package check system
of path.
If it's not if this is a file based resume's if the path is not in stop path it's not going to load
loaded.
And the story.
Period.
If it's code that you're writing yourself and you need to basically make Python aware that there's another
location where you can go and grab stuff.
You can certainly do that.
And you just add it to the system path.
Of course there's problems with that because that means now that you need to somehow to add it to Psystar
pass that means that I have to hard code essentially this location inside my program.
So you'll probably want to do something else to find it.
You need to add additional locations that you can then add to the suspense.
You could have configuration files maybe that have that.
But there's also another thing that you can do which is called arm paths path files and for that you
can go and look.
Here let me show you.
You can go and look in the Python documentation.
I'm not going to talk about this on the site specific configuration hopes what you're going to be looking
for is something called Pathfinder's de-th funds.
OK.
So this talks about it.
And basically these are files where you just add to that.
You know the new directories that you want to add in to your suspect.
So basically it's just a way of specifying additional directories for syste path but you can put that
in a file you only.
But the problem is it needs to be in specific locations.
So if you're interested in that you can go ahead and read about it.
But that's how fast works and that's how the importing work.
And if we do want to use importing using code as opposed to using you know the import statement then
we should use the import lib.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.